All right guys so now we're going to jump in and get started with CSX grid which is one of the best
additions to CSX and makes grid based layouts very easy to create.
So what is the grid.
It's a grid layout system for CSX it's similar to flex box in that you can do a lot of the same things
that you can do at flex box.
However there are some big differences.
The biggest being that the grid is capable of two dimensional layouts and I'll get to that in a minute.
CSX grid is a bit harder to use than flex but it's also more powerful and we can use we can still use
the same alignment properties that we've used with Flex such as a line items justify content as far
as browser support.
All browsers support it.
Aside from Internet Explorer which does have partial support for the grid system now since you've already
learned flex box if you've been following along with this course that's going to help you tremendously
because you understand the concept of having a container and then having items within that container
and grid works the same way where you set you know we've set a display property to grid of a container
and then all of the child elements become grid items and then we can set an property called GRID template
columns where we define the number of columns that we want as well as the widths.
And you're going to be introduced to a new unit of measure called F R fraction.
Now the biggest difference between flex and the grid is that Flex is not capable of two dimensional
layouts you use it for a single row or column and you just set your alignments with the grid.
You can have two dimensional layouts.
So on the left we have just a one dimensional row with a nav bar and this is something we would use
flex box for you could use the grid but flex is usually good for this type of stuff.
And then on the right we have basically an entire layout that is set with one grid.
OK.
And you can actually span items across multiple columns in multiple rows.
And this is a good example of exactly what I'm talking about.
This is one grid and this is something we cannot do with Flex blocks.
You see it's it's two dimensional it goes both ways.
We can take a an item and we can span it down a rows separate rows or we can take an item and we can
span it across columns or we can span it across both rows and columns where flex blocks you would just
have you know certain elements along in one row one line and it's just one dimensional.
So that's the that's the biggest difference.
And there's different use cases for each.
I can't stand the argument of always use CSX grid.
I had to in my opinion people that say that they're just the type of people that have to use the newest
thing and have to use buzzwords just to basically sound smart and sound cool and that's just ridiculous.
There's different use cases for grid and flex.
For me I like to use CSX grid for outer elements basically boxes and grid like layouts and then for
simple alignments or inner elements things like menu items stuff like that use flex I use flex for most
of the stuff that we've done up to this point like menu items and you know landing pages were centering
elements in a flex column.
I would I would use flex for that I would not use the grid for that.
There were a couple cases like maybe with the hotel site where we had the different boxes I may have
used a grid for that but you know it's preference.
Everyone's different.
Some people will use only one or the other but those people generally don't understand the difference
and they use cases.
So you want to you'll kind of pick this stuff up as you go along.
All right so let's jump in and let's start to learn CSX grid.